.TH ISDNCTRL 8 "25. June 1997"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
isdnctrl \- get/set ISDN device information
.SH SYNOPSIS
isdnctrl action device ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I isdnctrl
is used to create and delete network interfaces for ISDN, set up
the various parameters and phone numbers for dial in and dial
out. It is also used to list the current paramteters of an
already configured interface.
.LP
The use of
.I isdnctrl
is independent of the hardware driver.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
The following 
.I actions
may be given to
.I isdnctrl.
.TP 5
.B addif [name]
Adds a new ISDN IP-interface "name" to the kernel. If "name" is
omitted, the kernel will use "ethX", while X is an increasing
number starting from 0.
.TP 5
.B delif name
Removes the ISDN IP-interface "name" from the kernel.
.TP 5
.B addphone name out num
Set the phone number(s) of the remote site for the IP-interface
"name". More than one number can be set by calling
.I isdnctrl addphone
repeatedly. If more than one number is set these will be tried
one after another. When using an german SPV-type connection,
with a ICN-card, the number has to be preceeded by a capital S. 
.TP 5
.B addphone name in num
Set the phone number(s) that the IP-interface "name" is supposed
to accept for incoming calls. If no number is given incoming
calls are disabled. More than one number can be set by calling
.I isdnctrl addphone
repeatedly. Also wildcards can be used (see below).
.TP 5
.B delphone name in|out num
Remove phone number "num" from the incoming or outgoing phone list.
.TP 5
.B eaz name [num]
Set the EAZ (German 1TR6 protocol) or MSN (Euro-ISDN E-DSS1) for
interface "name" to "num". For an EAZ this is only one digit, for
a MSN "num" is the whole MSN. If "num" is omitted
.I isdnctrl eaz name
prints the current setting for interface "name".
.TP 5
.B huptimeout name [seconds]
Set the hangup timeout for interface "name" to "seconds". If
there is inactivity (i.e. no traffic on the interface) for the
given time the driver automatically shuts down the connection.
If "seconds" is omitted
.I isdnctrl huptimeout name
prints the current setting for interface "name".
.TP 5
.B cbdelay name [seconds]
Set the callback delay for interface "name" to "seconds". If
callback mode for this interface is
.I in
, dialing is delayed the given time. If the callback mode is
.I out
, after dialing out and waiting the given time, a hangup is
issued to free the line for the incoming callback from the remote
machine. This hangup-after-dial is disabled by setting cbdelay to
0.
If "seconds" is omitted
.I isdnctrl cbdelay name
prints the current setting for interface "name".
.TP 5
.B dialmax name [num]
Set the number of dial atempts for interface "name" to "num". If
dialing, each phonenumber is tried this many times before giving up.
If "num" is omitted
.I isdnctrl dialmax name
prints the current setting for interface "name".
.TP 5
.B ihup name [on|off]
Turn on or off the hangup timeout for incoming calls on
interface "name". If none of on or off is given the current
setting is printed.
.TP 5
.B chargehup name [on|off]
Turn on or off hangup before next charge info for interface
name. This can only be used if the ISDN provider transmits
charge info during and after the connection. If set to on, the
driver will close the connection just before the next charge
info will be received if the interface is inactive. If none of
on or off is given the current setting is printed.
.TP 5
.B chargeint name [seconds]
When "seconds" are given, the charge interval for the given
interface is set. This may be of use on ISDN lines with no
chargeinfo or no online chargeinfo. The connection will only
be closed 2 seconds before the end of the next charge interval
and only, if 
.I huptimeout
seconds of inactivity have been reached. If 
.I ihup 
is on, also incomming connections are closed by this mechanism.
On lines with online charge info you also might ask by 
.I chargeint name 
for the current charge interval as delivered from the
telecom on a given interface.
.TP 5
.B secure name [on|off]
Turns on or off the security feature for interface "name". If
set to on, incoming calls will only be accepted if the calling
number has been added to the access list with
.I isdnctrl addphone name in.
If none of on or off is given the current setting is printed.
.TP 5
.B callback name [on|off|in|out]
Selects callback mode for interface "name". If callback mode is
.I in
, then after getting an incoming call, a callback is triggered. If
callback mode is
.I out
, then this system does the initial call, then waiting for callback of
the remote machine. The option
.I on
is available only for compatibility with older versions. Its meaning is
the same like
.I in.
.TP 5
.B cbhup name [on|off]
Turns on or off Hangup (Reject) for interface "name" before starting Callback.

If none of on or off is given the current
setting is printed.
.TP 5
.B encap name [encapname]
Set the encapsulation mode for interface "name". Possible modes
for encapname are:

.B rawip
raw ip encapsulation (default)

.B ip
ip + typefield encapsulation

.B cisco_h
Special mode for communicating with a Cisco in HDLC-mode.

.B ethernet
ethernet over ISDN

.B syncppp
Synchronous PPP over ISDN

.B uihdlc
raw ip with additional ui-header

If encapname is omitted the current setting is printed.

.TP 5
.B l2_prot name [protocol]
Set the layer-2 protocol for interface "name". Possible values
for "protocol" are
.B x75i, x75ui, x75bui
and
.B hdlc

If protocol is omitted the current setting is printed.
.TP 5
.B l3_prot name [protocol]
Set the layer-3 protocol for interface "name". At the moment only
.B trans
is supported.
If protocol is omitted the current setting is printed.
.TP 5
.B list name
List all parameters and the charge info for interface "name".
.TP 5
.B verbose <num>
Set verbosity level to <num>.
.TP 5
.B hangup name
The connection of interface "name" is cloes immediately. 
.TP 5
.B bind name driverId channel [exclusive]
Binds an interface "name" to specific physical channel.
The driverId identifies the desired driver. The channels of a card start
counting with zero. If "exclusive" is given, other
interfaces cannot use that interface anymore.
.TP 5
.B unbind name
Unbinds a the previously bound interface "name".
.TP 5
.B pppbind name [num]
Binds the current interface to a ippp device (/dev/ipppX).
This works only for syncronous ppp.
The value must be a number.
If no number is omitted, it shows the the current binding.
.TP 5
.B busreject driverId [on|off]
If switched on, isdn4linux replies a REJECT to incoming calls, it
cannot match to any configured interface. If switched off, nothing
happens in this case.
.I You normally should NOT enable this feature, if the ISDN-adaptor is not the only device, connected to the S0-bus. Otherwise it could happen, that isdn4linux rejects an incoming call, which belongs to another device on the bus.
.TP 5
.B addslave name slavename
Adds a slave interface to interface "name" for channel-bundling. For bundling
of more than two channels, any number of slaves can be added to an interface.
"name"must refer to an existing "real" interface (not a slave). Slaves are
not visible to the kernel, however all usual ISDN-settings can be configured.
.B It is important
that slave interfaces are added
.B before
the corresponding master is started by
.B ifconfig.
If the master is already up, it has to be shutdown with
.B ifconfig down ...
otherwise the addslave command will be rejected.
.TP 5
.B sdelay name <num>
Set delay for slave-dialing.
A master interface has to have a load of more than
.B trigger
cps for at least this time
(in seconds), before it's slave is started.
.TP 5
.B trigger name <num>
Set trigger level for slave-dialing.
A master interface has to have a load of more than
.B trigger
cps for at least
.B sdelay
seconds, before it's slave is started.
.TP 5
.B dial name
Force dialing of interface "name".
.TP 5
.B mapping driverId MSN0[,MSN1[,MSN2]] ... [,MSN9]
Installs a mapping-table for MSN<->EAZ-mapping. See README for details.
.TP 5
.B writeconf [file]
Writes the configuration into a file. If "file" is omitted, the default file
/etc/isdn/isdn.conf will be used.
.TP 5
.B readconf [file]
Reads the configuration from a file. If "file" is omitted, the default file
/etc/isdn/isdn.conf will be used.

.SS Syntax of the configuration file
This syntax will be used for the options
.B readconf
and
.B writeconf.

All entries are included in the section
.B [ISDNCTRL].
This section contains an entry
.B INTERFACES,
which describes the interfaces. Each subsection 
.B [INTERFACE]
or
.B [SLAVE]
describes one interface. There are the following entries possible:
.TP 5
.B NAME
The name of the interface.
This entry is required.

.B Example:
NAME = ippp0
.TP 5
.B EAZ
Set the EAZ or the MSN.
This entry is required.

.B Example:
EAZ = 4711
.TP 5
.B PHONE_IN
Set the incoming phone number(s).
It requires at least one blank between the different numbers.

.B Example:
PHONE_IN = 08151234 08151235 08151236
.TP 5
.B PHONE_OUT
Set the outgoing phone number(s). 
It requires at least one blank between the different numbers.

.B Example:
PHONE_OUT = 08151237 08151238
.TP 5
.B SECURE
Turn on or off the security feature.
Allowed values are "on" and "off".

.B Example:
SECURE = on
.TP 5
.B CALLBACK
Selects callback mode.
Allowed values are "off", "in" and "out".

.B Example:
CALLBACK = in
.TP 5
.B CBHUP
Turns on or off hangup before starting callback.
Allowed values are "on" and "off".

.B Example:
CBHUP = on
.TP 5
.B CBDELAY
Set the callback delay to "seconds".

.B Example:
CBDELAY = 5
.TP 5
.B DIALMAX
Set the number of dial atempts to "num".

.B Example:
DIALMAX = 1
.TP 5
.B HUPTIMEOUT
Set the hanguptime to "seconds".

.B Example:
HUPTIMEOUT = 20
.TP 5
.B IHUP
Turns on or off the hangup timeout for incoming calls.
Allowed values are "on" and "off".

.B Example:
IHUP = on
.TP 5
.B CHARGEHUP
Turns on or off hangup before next charge info.
Allowed values are "on" and "off".

.B Example:
CHARGEHUP = on
.TP 5
.B CHARGEINT
Sets the charge interval to "seconds".

.B Example:
CHARGEINT = 1
.TP 5
.B L2_PROT
Set the layer-2 protocol.
Allowed values are "x75i", "x75ui", "x75bui" and "hdlc".

.B Example:
L2_PROT = hdlc
.TP 5
.B L3_PROT
Set the layer-3 protocol.
Allowed value is only "trans".

.B Example:
L3_PROT = trans
.TP 5
.B ENCAP
Sets the encapsulation mode.
Allowed values are "rawip", "ip", "cisco_h", "ethernet", "syncppp" and "uihdlc".

.B Example:
ENCAP = rawip
.TP 5
.B SDELAY
Set the delay in seconds for the slave-dialing.

.B Example:
SDELAY = 0
.TP 5
.B ADDSLAVE
Adds a slave interface for channel-bundling.

.B Example:
ADDSLAVE = s-ippp0
.TP 5
.B BIND
Binds the current interface to a specific physical channel.
Before and after the comma may not be a blank.

.B Example:
BIND = teles1,0
.TP 5
.B PPPBIND
Binds the current interface to a ippp device (/dev/ipppX).
This works only for syncronous ppp.
The value must be a number.

.B Example:
PPPBIND = 0


.TP 5
.B Example for a configuration file

[ISDNCTRL]
  INTERFACES = {
    [INTERFACE]
    NAME      = isdn0
    EAZ       = 4711
    PHONE_IN  = 08151234
    PHONE_OUT = 08151234
    SECURE    = on
    DIALMAX   = 1
    HUPTIMEOUT= 20
    IHUP      = on
    CHARGEHUP = on
    L2_PROT   = hdlc
    L3_PROT   = trans
    ENCAP     = rawip
    ADDSLAVE  = s-isdn0
    SDELAY    = 10

    [SLAVE]
    NAME      = s-isdn0
    EAZ       = 4711
    PHONE_OUT = 08151234
    SECURE    = on
    DIALMAX   = 1
    HUPTIMEOUT= 10
    IHUP      = on
    CHARGEHUP = on
    L2_PROT   = hdlc
    L3_PROT   = trans
    ENCAP     = rawip

    [INTERFACE]
    NAME      = ippp0
    EAZ       = 4712
    PHONE_OUT = 08151235 08151236
    SECURE    = on
    DIALMAX   = 5
    HUPTIMEOUT= 200
    IHUP      = on
    CHARGEHUP = on
    L2_PROT   = hdlc
    L3_PROT   = trans
    ENCAP     = syncppp
    PPPBIND   = 0
  }



.SH WILDCARDS
For matching incoming calls phone numbers can be be set by
.I isdnctrl addphone name in num
using pattern matching like the regular expressions in shells.
The following wildcards are supported:

.TP 7
.I ?
one arbitrary digit
.TP 7
.I *
zero or arbitrary many digits
.TP 7
.I [123]
one of the digits in the list
.TP 7
.I [1-5]
one digit between '1' and '5'
.TP 7
.I ^
as the first character in a list inverts the
list
.LP
.SH BUGS
This man page is not complete.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Volker Goetz <volker@oops.franken.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I ttyI\c
\&(4),
.I icnctrl\c
\&(8),
.I telesctrl\c
\&(8),
.I isdninfo\c
\&(4).

