.TH ant-phone 1 "27 April 2003" "Version 0.1.0" "ANT Manual Pages"
.SH NAME
ant-phone \- an interactive ISDN telephone application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ant-phone
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
ant-phone is part of ANT (ANT is Not a Telephone). It let's you make and receive telephone calls and talk via sound devices. It uses ISDN4Linux ttyI devices.
.SH OPTIONS
ant-phone accepts the following options:
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options
.TP
.B  \-v, \-\-version
Print version information
.TP
.B  \-r, \-\-cleanup
Remove stale socket file left by accident by a previous run of ANT. You only need this option if ANT says: "local bind: Address already in use"
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-debug" [ = debuglevel]
Print additional runtime debugging data to stdout, debuglevel = 1..2
.TP
.BI "\-i, \-\-soundin=" device
OSS compatible device for input (recording),
default: /dev/dsp
.TP
.BI "\-o, \-\-soundout=" device
OSS compatible device for output (playback),
default: /dev/dsp
.TP
.BI "\-m, \-\-msn=" msn
identifying MSN (for outgoing calls), 0 for master MSN of this
termination/port,
default: 0
.TP
.BI "\-l, \-\-msns=" msns
MSNs to listen on, semicolon-separated list or '*',
default: *
.TP
.BI "\-c, \-\-call=" number
Make a running instance of ANT make a call to the specified number,
useful for calling from an external address book application
.SH NOTES
If the used sound devices (arguments of \-\-soundin and \-\-soundout)
are equal, a full duplex sound device is needed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.ant-phone/history
the last dialed numbers
.TP
.I ~/.ant-phone/options
user specific options file
.TP
.I ~/.ant-phone/callerid
saved history of incoming and outgoing calls
.SH BUGS
The GTK+ main loop consumes all the system CPU time. This is due to the Linux kernel select() call consuming the time while waiting for a completed data block. This only appears with some Linux kernel OSS drivers, not with ALSA.
.SH AUTHORS
ANT was developed by Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>, based on ideas from IVCALL, Copyright 2002 Lennart Poettering. G.711 handling by Sun Microsystems. Contributions by Joerg Mayer <jmayer@loplof.de>, Lars Volkhardt <Lars.Volkhardt@uni-konstanz.de>.
