.TH TELESCTRL 8 "3. December 1995"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
telesctrl \- configure Teles-Module-logging
.SH SYNOPSIS
telesctrl [-d DriverId] 1 <LogFlags>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I telesctrl
is used to setup the logging-level of the Teles-ISDN devicedriver. All
logging-output is sent to the device /dev/isdnctrl. So you can show it
by executing "cat /dev/isdnctrl".
.LP
The use of
.I telesctrl
makes sense, if you are using an Teles-card only.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -d DriverId
is used to identify the driver when using more than one Teles-card. While
loading the module with
.I insmod,
the driverId is set by appending
.I id=MyId
to the normal insmod-commandline. For this feature insmod from the package
.I modules-1.2.8
or newer should be used as it supports string-initializations.
.LP
The
.I LogFlags
are given as a bit-coded integer with the following values:
.TP 5
.B 1 Link-level <--> Hardware-level communication.
If this bit is set all communication between the isdn-module and the
teles-module is logged.
.TP 5
.B 2 Top statemachine
If this bit is set, all state-changes of the top statemachine are logged.
.TP 5
.B 4 D-channel Q.931
If this bit is set, all Q.931-messages (call-control) are logged.
.TP 5
.B 8 D-channel Q.921
If this bit is set, all Q.921-messages are logged.
.TP 5
.B 16 B-channel X.75
If this bit is set, all B-channel X.75 events are logged.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Fritz Elfert <fritz@wuemaus.franken.de>
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I ttyI\c
\&(4),
.I isdnctrl\c
\&(8),
.I telesctrl\c
\&(8),
.I isdninfo\c
\&(4).
